# Developer's Log, Stardate 2024.01.02

## Happy New Year

I really love Jan 2nd. It just feels good to put up the new calendar (virtually for me these days). It feels to me that there's so much more energy for positive change and the potential to improve everything on the first official workday of a new year. It's not a coincidence that I started my career at Microsoft on Jan 2 and ended it Jan 2 eight years later when I was allowed to pick my start and exit dates. I think I would always pick Jan 2 for the start of any big move if given the choice.

## True Commitment to Continuous Delivery

After reading a recent post by Bryan Finster **5 Minute DevOps: Optimize For Sleep** (<https://bdfinst.medium.com/5-minute-devops-optimize-for-sleep-f65c8605b460>) I have been influenced to tweak **Thoughts on where to begin** a little from the kickoff meeting. In this article Bryan says,

***1. The delivery pipeline is feature 0. Before I write a feature, I need a way to test and deliver that feature. So the first test is to test that I can ship “Hello world.” When I’ve worked in places where this isn’t possible, I’ve delayed coding for as long as possible and then stressed with every change that was waiting on a pipeline to be created because I knew rework was coming.***

### Goals

1) Using TDD develop the project in TypeScript
2) Implement the project to run as a real-time system using the keyboard to simulate end users performing actions like inserting coins, selecting items to vend, pressing coin return to abort a transaction etc.
3) Implement Continuous Delivery for the project
4) Implement ATDD *acceptance test driven design*.
5) Implement the real-time system as a FSM *finite state machine*.

### Thoughts on where to begin (updated)

* Diagram a physical vending machine to help to us think through what are the parts of a vending machine
* Draw a FSM diagram to help us get our heads around how the machine works
* Write more stories to augment the stories already given in the description
* ~~Pick one of the simplest things to implement from the stories and then write one test to get us going, following TDD rules.~~
* The delivery pipeline is feature 0. Before I write a feature, I need a way to test and deliver that feature. So the first test is to test that I can ship “Hello world.”
* Pick one of the simplest things to implement from the stories and then write one test to get us going, following TDD rules.
