# Developer's Log, Stardate 2024.02.13

## Progress

### CI Intermittent Failures

Our NodeJS CI workflow still intermittently fails because sometimes Git doesn't know who the user is even though we have code in there to get the user who triggered from the GitHub Context. I don't think it is my bug. I think this a GitHub issue. The workaround is to use the re-run all jobs option when it fails. I've noticed the issue is much worse in the late evenings and rare
during the day. I'll keep trying to find a workaround for this issue.

### Good Progress on the nodejs-cd.yml workflow

* It works! As of this writing you can see the progress at this point in the project by looking at the sources tagged "rc-260" see <https://github.com/WoodyB/vending-machine-project/blob/rc-260/.github/workflows/nodejs-ci.yml> and <https://github.com/WoodyB/vending-machine-project/blob/rc-260/.github/workflows/nodejs-cd.yml>
* Currently Release Candidates that have passed or failed the Acceptance Stage are "re-named" in the artifact repository. Once a Release Candidate has passed the Commit Stage it will be uploaded to the artifact repository with a name like rc-build_number-binaries. For example rc-260-binaries. If the Release Candidate in this example, rc-260-binaries, passes the Acceptance Stage then it will be "re-named" to rc-260-binaries-accepted. If it fails the Acceptance Stage then it will be "re-named" to rc-260-binaries-rejected. I put re-named in quotes because GitHub does not allow renaming artifacts so we have to make a copy of it and upload it with a new name then delete the original artifact.
* Artifact repository artifacts are ephemeral with a default time to live set to 90 days. This means we need some way to convert an Accepted Release Candidate to a Release. This CD Deployment Pipeline implements Continuous Delivery not Continuous Deployment. Thus not all Accepted Release Candidates will become Releases. Instead we will Release when we are ready by selecting an Accepted Release Candidate. This Release will be a GitHub Release which is not ephemeral. 
 

## What I hope to have done next iteration

* Add a design document that explains a Dave Farley style minium CD Deployment Pipeline and how I have attempted to implement it in this project. I realize you may not be familiar with a Dave Farley style CD Deployment Pipeline so I hope to this document will help.
* Add a new workflow that all allow the user to manually run it, select an Accepted Release Candidate and deploy it as a Release.