# Developer's Log, Stardate 2024.02.03

## Progress

### Bad News

Our NodeJS CI workflow intermittently fails because sometimes Git doesn't know who the user is even though we have code in there to get the user who triggered from the GitHub Context. I suspect there is some sort of race
condition. I'll keep looking into it.

### Good News

I did complete the goals I set in the previous developer's log! Which were

* Updated nodejs-ci.yml to not use hardcoded user when performing Git commands. It is now dynamic coming from
GitHub Context.

* Created the new workflow nodejs-cd.yml. This workflow runs every 5 mins
* The workflow gets all the Release Candidate tags from GitHub and sorts them to determine the newest
tag. Example if we have rc-54 through rc-95 then the workflow should identify rc-95 as the latest
release candidate.

### ChatGPT

* I'm finding ChatGPT is really helpful when it comes to writing bash scripts in the workflow
* I find working with ChatGPT is a lot like working with another engineer. It makes mistakes just like
another engineer but it is still faster then me looking up all the Linux commands. If we just aren't making
progress I will suggest a whole new approach just like I would working with a person. The difference is ChatGPT is always keen to take a new approach. Humans often take much more persuading. GhatGPT never gets
angry and can work whenever I want to work.

## What I hope to have done next iteration

* I don't know yet. It's the weekend and I will have to think about what's next tomorrow or Monday. I'm stoked though! I like the progress. Feels like maybe, just maybe, I'm hitting my stride.
