# Developer's Log, 2024.03.29

## Progress

* __Done:__ Prepare the way for our acceptance tests

Well kind of done. I didn't plan to do this log update until sometime next week but I think this is important enough to deserve its own log entry. Normally I would not check in an experiment. I usually just use them to learn then pick out the bits that were good and apply to the real work. However, I want to share this one with you because it's one of those experiments that turn out good enough that you could be tempted to just run with it. We won't but I think it will be good to explain why.

But first let's have a look at it and talk about the good things. More than likely I will delete it later so I will put a link here to preserve the reference. See [vending-machine.spec.ts in test/experiments](https://github.com/WoodyB/vending-machine-project/blob/rc-487/test/experiments/vending-machine.spec.ts)

The idea is to write acceptance tests from the point of view of the customer. We want to test in a production like environment. However, we want the tests to be automated so we can run them in our pipeline. Also, we want the tests to be written in a BDD style where we describe __what__ to test but not __how__. Of course, at some point we have to put in the instructions of how but that can be done at a lower level.

### Production Like Environment

Production like environment usually will not mean a scaled down mirror image of the production environment although it seems to be the most common environment I see companies use. I'm not saying you don't need such environments but what I am saying is those environments are usually not good automated test environments. They are better suited for tasks like exploratory testing. That said you want the SUT (System Under Test) from its point of view not able to distinguish the test environment from the production environment.

I think we've found a pretty good compromise in our experiment. We are controlling the keyboard input by replacing the Simulator's InputHandler with one we can control. To monitor the output we are replacing consol.log with our own version while the tests are running so we can capture the output and perform our assertions.

Short of using a robot to press keys on the keyboard and use a video camera to capture output the next closest thing to production would be use STDIN for input and STDOUT for output. You may say well that would be better wouldn't it? By not doing it that way you aren't testing the whole system. It's true but my judgement is we are close enough to the seam that all we really need is one test that uses STDIN / STDOUT to give us confidence in that part of the system. Guess what? We already have a test for this and we've had it almost from the beginning of the project. It's this test [smoke-test.ts](https://github.com/WoodyB/vending-machine-project/blob/rc-488/test/acceptance/smoke-test.spec.ts) This test runs the whole thing in a child process then sends a x key through STDIN to stop the vending machine and exit the simulator.

### Test What Not How

Here's where the experiment test falls short of our goal.

``` javascript
    it('Should display 0.25 after a quarter is inserted', async () => {
        await waitForVendingMachineToDisplay('DISPLAY: Insert Coin');
        await simulatedKeyboardInputHandler.simulateKeyPress('q');
        await simulatedKeyboardInputHandler.simulateKeyPress('\r');
        const foundDisplay25Cents = await waitForVendingMachineToDisplay('DISPLAY: 0.25');
        expect(foundDisplay25Cents).toBe(true);
    });
```

 Let's look at one of the tests. The it-should seems reasonable and resembles the language used in the Accept Coins story.

*The vending machine will accept valid coins (nickels, dimes, and quarters) and reject invalid ones (pennies). When a valid coin is inserted the amount of the coin will be added to the current amount and the display will be updated.*

But what follows is a problem. Our test is not abstracted from __how__. It is pressing a q key to simulate inserting a quarter. That's exactly what we need to do when using the simulator but if we can keep our tests at a higher level they will still be valid even if we don't run them with our current simulator. Imagine later we decide it would be better to replace the current simulator with a NodeJS server with a React frontend. The tests and desired behavior should remain the same. We still want the vending machine to display 0.25 when we insert a quarter but that will likely mean the user is going to click a button in the UI and the display will not likely be STDOUT.

Yes, we will have to write some new code to drive the UI, API, or perhaps both but that will take place in a lower level than the test. Our goal is to implement Dave Farley's four layer approach. See [How To Write Acceptance Tests](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JDD5EEJgpHU) Mr. Farley does a great job of explaining the concept on his YouTube Channel.

## What I hope to have done by next log update

* Implement the 4 Layer Approach and write tests for the Accept Coins story.
