# Developer's Log, 2024.05.31

## Progress

* __Done:__ Investigate / experiment with version 2.0 that replaces my poor man's finite state machine with a OOP state pattern.

I did spend some time investigating re-implementing the state machine in a more OOP way using a state pattern. The current poor man's state machine polls the driving adapters for changes in the real world. An event like inserting a coin is held in the adapter until the state machine reads it (a destructive read) or it gets replaced by the simulator with another coin insert. The state machine loop is fast by design and although unlikely, if the user manages to insert another coin using the simulator before the first coin is processed, the first coin inserted would never be seen. This simple design eliminates a lot of complexity.

My first experiment was to get rid of the polling. Although doable I decided it was not going to be trivial to switch to a real event driven design.

My second experiment was to keep the polling but create an event handler that did the polling then drove state pattern state machine. This was also doable but was going to be a lot of work. It would eliminate a bunch of if statements currently in the poor mans's state machine.

Before deciding to move forward I decided to go back and look at the original goals for this project. Looking at those I have decided to not make these changes at this time.

I am not really satisfied with the code in VendingMachine.ts but I have high confidence that it is working well. This has been a great learning experience but I think it's time for me to move on to a new learning project. I'm going to reflect and attempt to summarize some of the things I've learned in a retrospective. I reserve the right to come back to it at a later date and improve it.

## What I hope to have done by next log update

* Reflect and write a retrospective.

---
| [<< Previous](https://woodyb.github.io/vending-machine-project/design/developers-log/2024.05.22)
| Next >>
| [Log Directory](https://woodyb.github.io/vending-machine-project/design/developers-log/Directory-Of-Developers-Logs)
| [Project Code View](https://github.com/WoodyB/vending-machine-project) |
