# Developer's Log, 2024.01.31

## Progress

I'm pleased say it took a bit of work but I pretty much have the CI bit working or what is known as The Commit Stage in
in Continuous Delivery. I did complete the goals I set in the previous developer's log. Which were

* Create an immutable "binary" from the build and store it in an artifact repository
* Tag all source files that were used to create the "binary" artifact

## What I hope to have done next iteration

* When performing Git operations on a runner (github server spun up in a github workflow) git wants to know
who you are. Currently I have this hardcoded in my nodejs-ci.yml to my user name "WoodyB". I suspect if someone
else were triggering this workflow with a PR there would be an error. Even if that's not the case I still need to
change it. Workflows have access to GitHub Context which is full of information including who triggered the workflow.
I need to use that information and remove the hardcoded user name.

* Begin the next workflow that runs every 5 mins to pick up where the first workflow left off. If this were a big project
and being worked on by a team of several developers it's highly likely several merges could happen in 5 mins. Following the
advice of Dave Farley we aren't going to run the next workflow on every release candidate. If this were a larger
project this practice could slow down our productivity. Instead the new workflow will determine which is the latest release candidate and use it. This is possible because all the other merges to the main trunk (main branch) prior to the last release candidate are included. This is the beauty of Continuous Integration.
In the next iteration I would like to get these items completed in the next workflow which I'll name nodejs-cd.yml for now
    * triggers on cron (every 5 mins)
    * determines which release candidate is the latest and prints it
