# Developer's Log, 2024.01.09

## Thoughts on where to begin (updated again)

* Diagram a physical vending machine to help to us think through what are the parts of a vending machine
* Draw a FSM diagram to help us get our heads around how the machine works
* The delivery pipeline is feature 0. Before I write a feature, I need a way to test and deliver that feature. So the first test is to test that I can ship “Hello world.”
* Pick one of the simplest things to implement from the stories and then write one test to get us going, following TDD rules.
* Write more stories to augment the stories already given in the description

## Progress

* We now have some early code for the vending machine and commit / acceptance tests
* Note that even though the early code is just displaying "Hello world" we are taking care
to follow the **Dependency inversion principle.** Instead of simply using console.log() to display
"Hello world" we took some care here which allows testing without using some unneeded fancy mock.
This is a big benefit you can get from TDD. This is a demonstration of testable code tends to be better designed code. I learned this from Dave Farley. Thanks Dave!

## What I hope to have done next iteration

* We need to get our CI going. We are going to use **Gated Continuous Integration.** What this means is developers will create short lived branches (live no longer than a day once we get going), make some small changes using TDD then merge their short lived branch back to main. The github action script **nodejs-ci.yml** will run the **commit stage** test(s) and only merge the branch to the main trunk if the tests pass. Using Gated CI over plain CI slightly increases our chances of a merge conflict but I think it's worth it.

* Finish **Diagram a physical vending machine to help to us think through what are the parts of a vending machine**
* Finish **Draw a FSM diagram to help us get our heads around how the machine works**

---
| [<< Previous](https://woodyb.github.io/vending-machine-project/design/developers-log/2024.01.02)
| [Next >>](https://woodyb.github.io/vending-machine-project/design/developers-log/2024.01.29)
| [Log Directory](https://woodyb.github.io/vending-machine-project/design/developers-log/Directory-Of-Developers-Logs)
| [Project Code View](https://github.com/WoodyB/vending-machine-project) |
