# Developer's Log, 2024.02.29

## Progress

Remember this one?

* The delivery pipeline is feature 0. Before I write a feature, I need a way to test and deliver that feature. So the first test is to test that I can ship “Hello world.”

Well, I'm happy to report this is done. [See Continuous Delivery Pipelines: Dave Farley Style](https://github.com/WoodyB/vending-machine-project/blob/main/design/CD-Deployment-Pipelines.pdf)

I ended up using box.com to store my Releases because Releases need to be permanent. GitHub just didn't offer anything for permanent storage that didn't seem wrong in some way to me. For most production scenarios unless the product is the source code you will likely deploy somewhere else like AWS, Azure, Google Cloud, Firmware in a chip etc etc so I think this is good. The Releases can be found here in the [vending-machine-project-releases](https://app.box.com/s/rdff61foy8s2y3uoo4j0qbhijkt1er17/folder/250524193403) folder.

I'm going to spare you ALL the war stories. Here's what I learned about writing bash scripts in Workflows. Workflows are yaml files and there's parsing going on that you may not be able to always figure out. Just because your curl works great in your terminal doesn't mean it's going to work in the Workflow. In short, I found what I would consider bugs when it comes to parsing. One of the hardest to figure out _and I have to give ChatGPT credit here because it really helped_ was a backslash being used as a continuation character in a curl was next to a linefeed. I think the parser was interpreting the backslash as an escape charter for the invisible linefeed which then caused the parser to think the next line was part of the curl. This took hours to fix.

As for using Box.com, the REST endpoints were pretty easy to figure out. However, OAuth2 is not easy. But if you want to use REST APIs by companies like Box, Dropbox etc you gotta just bite the bullet. I think I could write a paper on what I learned implementing this. Maybe I will at a later date. For now I'm just going to put in some links that really helped me get past the hurdle.

* Don't sign up for a Box Account first. Instead sign up for a Developer Account. You will still
get storage space but life will be better if you take this advice. [See Box's Support](https://support.box.com/hc/en-us/articles/4636662134803-Creating-Your-Developer-Account)
* My first attempt to do the [OAuth2 dance](https://auth0.com/docs/get-started/authentication-and-authorization-flow/authorization-code-flow) to get my first access_token and refresh_token was to write an Express app and I was trying to use Dropbox instead of Box. This didn't go well at all. After some research I found this [Getting started with the Box API and Postman in 5 minutes YouTube video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aEILZ_tukLg) and this was the ticket. You see even though your "app" wants to access your Box storage you still have to give it access to your data. In our case we don't really have an app we just have a workflow that need store a zip file but OAuth does not care. This video shows how to use Postman along with some nice stuff Box setup to get you going fast. Once our "app" has permission as long as we keep up with our access_tokens and refresh_tokens correctly
we are golden. If you would like to see what this Workflow looks like at the time of this writing you can see it [here](https://github.com/WoodyB/vending-machine-project/blob/rc-420/.github/workflows/create-release.yml) Oh by the way, if you take a look and wonder what the hell a "fester-honker" is I will tell you. As I was developing at first I wasn't encrypting my refresh token which I need to store after the workflow finishes. So I felt better not calling the
artifact refresh-token and used an anagram, fester-honker. It was my intention to change the name to refresh-token after I got the encryption working but then I decided what the heck, I kind of like fester-honker. It grew on me. Oh and I wanted to mention this neat Workflow thing. When you don't want to expose things like tokens in your Workflow logs this is your friend. echo "::add-mask::$my_token" In this example anywhere my_token would have shown up in output will be replaced with ***. Oh and here's a link that really helped me understand how to pass variables from one job to another or one step to another step in Workflows. [Passing data between github actions, jobs, steps and tasks](https://kymidd.medium.com/lets-do-devops-passing-data-between-github-actions-jobs-steps-and-tasks-and-make-matrixes-30ceaf2db9b6)

I think when I get more done on this project I will make some YouTube videos explaining it.

## What I hope to have done next iteration

* Now that I have finished feature 0 (Dang you Brian Finster! No, really, thank you Brian) I can get back to designing software.
* Diagram a physical vending machine to help to us think through what are the parts of a vending machine
* Draw a FSM diagram to help us get our heads around how the machine works
