# Developer's Log, 2024.04.08

## Progress

* __Done:__ Finish the Accept Coins story implementation.

* __Done:__ Begin implementing Select Product story.

I may be progressing a little slower for the next couple of weeks on this project. Full disclosure, my spring pass is now valid at Mt. Bachelor AND I have snowboard friends visiting from Australia.

When I first started this little project I was concerned that maybe it was a little too simple for the things I wanted practice. Last week removed all those concerns.

First let me talk about the progress before I start criticizing everything I have done. I got the vending machine simulation to the point where you can press the q, d and n keys for quarter, dime and nickel (followed by the Enter key) and the machine will display the correct total. Then you can press a, b or c (followed by the Enter key) to purchase one of the products. a = cola, b = candy and c = chips. So that's a good start on the Select Product story. Of course, I developed everything I worked on using TDD although I caught myself cheating a few times. Cheating in that I started writing more code than was necessary in order to pass my failing test. Often it was only 3 or 4 lines of code so I just commented those lines out until I wrote a failing test. Sometimes the cheating code worked fine and other times it did not. In all cases I was really sure the code would work until the test didn't pass. If I'm honest with myself I know if I weren't practicing TDD I would have assumed the code was good and just continued coding then spent time later debugging. TDD can feel slower but if you consider the time you will lose later debugging perhaps you are actually moving faster.

Now for the bad parts.

### Ten dimes does not equal one dollar bug

Now that the simulation is doing a little more I wanted to play with it a little. I wasn't really purposely testing but having done a lot of testing in my past it's just a natural thing that happens. I'm glad I did. Imagine how surprised I was to discover that I had to put in eleven dimes in order to purchase a cola that costs $1.00. If you want to see it yourself install version 0.3.495 from [box.com](https://app.box.com/s/rdff61foy8s2y3uoo4j0qbhijkt1er17/folder/250524193403), put in 10 dimes and attempt to buy a cola. I'll show you code so you can look right at the bug.

```javascript
class DimeHandler implements CoinHandlerInterface {
  handleCoin(total: number): number {
    return total + 0.10;
  }
}
```

Do you see it? I know better but I just wasn't thinking about it.

### SOLID Code

As I've talked (now ad nauseam I fear) about using dependency inversion to keep components loosely coupled I've started to see something undesirable. I'm seeing some class constructors grow to take up to 5 parameters and I know there will be more. I think this is a code smell telling me that these classes are too big and violating other SOLID Code principals.

I'll also confess I had to cheat in my ports and adapters implementation in the CoinMechanismInsertedCoinsSimulatorAdapter by adding a method named resetPendingTransactionTotal() because I needed a way to reset the pending total amount in the machine back to 0 after a product is dispensed.

I think my desire to isolate most of the processing of coins from the vending machine FSM is good but this should not be implemented in the adapter. The adapters should only be concerned with connecting ports to what's on the other side.

The adapter should not be maintaining a total amount for a pending transaction. I was curious how real coin mechanisms work. At least some of them communicate with a very simple interface to the main circuit board in the vending machine. They basically send a number of electrical pulses to indicate what coin they have accepted. Perhaps one pulse for a nickle, two for a dime etc.

I also learned if the coin is rejected it simply does not open the chute for the coin to drop in. Thus the coin just rolls over all the closed chutes and ends up by default in the coin return. The main circuit board never knows about it. Knowing this I really didn't want to write any code to handle invalid coins but I really wanted to show the functionality for the code kata so I put something in but the information never makes it to the vending machine FSM. Since the simulator allows you to "insert" invalid coins i.e. SLUG, FOREIGN_COIN and PENNY I reckoned this code should live in the simulator adapter
CoinMechanismInsertedCoinsSimulatorAdapter.

### Summary

Although I'm not happy about all the things going wrong I think it's important to take a moment and consider that the focus has not been on the development of vending machine functionality. I've been much more focused on developing a CD Pipeline with a good testing approach and I think this is going well.

I wrote this in a LinkedIn post last week

It occurred to me today that the test code I've been writing is looking a lot better (such as it is) than the code it's testing. That's because that is really what I'm focusing on.

However, it struck me, perhaps this is exactly how we should approach any greenfield project.

Given the opportunity to begin work on a brand new greenfield project should you not only invest in getting CD running but also invest more in your testing infrastructure than your product code?

I think maybe the best way forward now is to finish the Product Story then begin refactoring the vending machine code using all the good tests that were written to preserve the behavior of the system.

## What I hope to have done by next log update

* Fix the 10 dimes does not add up to 1.00 bug
* Add instructions to simulator to describe what the keyboard keys do
* Finish the Select Product story
* Begin refactoring product code
