# Developer's Log, 2024.04.14

## Progress

* __Done:__ Fix the 10 dimes does not add up to 1.00 bug

* __Done:__ Add instructions to simulator to describe what the keyboard keys do

* __Done:__ Finish the Select Product story

* __Done:__ Begin refactoring product code

This 10 dimes bug was because using 0.10 to represent a dime instructs JavaScript/TypeScript to use floating point numbers. Floating point comes at a cost and there will be a loss in precision because there is not an exact binary representation for some numbers. Repeatedly adding 0.10 exposed this issue. The easy solution to this problem was to simply use integers to represent the prices in cents i.e. dime = 10.

```javascript
class DimeHandler implements CoinHandlerInterface {
  handleCoin(total: number): number {
    return total + 0.10;
  }
}
```

### Summary

I added two new [Facade](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Facade_pattern) classes this week CurrencyHandler and VendingHandler. Hexagonal Architecture does not dictate what architecture is used inside the hexagon where the core logic lives. More about that in a moment. The main reason I added these two classes was to start breaking up what's inside the hexagon. Having all the core logic in one big class (VendingMachine) is not only not a good design it was causing an issue of having too many parameters in its constructor. Before adding the two new classes it was necessary to have a constructor parameter in VendingMachine for each port/adapter . Now the new classes can accept some of the port/adapters in their constructors.

As for the architecture inside the hexagon, I think the best description for it right now is not far from being a ball of mud. Hopefully I can make this better soon. As I've said before, I've been much more focuses on goals such as minimum CD.

As I reflect on what I have so far on this project I am concerned that some of my unit tests are too tightly coupled to the implementation. Even though I have been using TDD I think some of these tests are not what Martian Fowler and others describe as [sociable tests](https://martinfowler.com/bliki/UnitTest.html). I will try to fix this. Ideally, we should be able to change anything inside the hexagon and as long as we don't change behavior our tests would not need to change. In fact our tests should give us the confidence that we have preserved behavior as we refactor.

As for improving the architecture inside the hexagon, I think it will be better to finish implementing the user stories using what we have. Improve our current tests and write good new tests. Hopefully, we should then be able to refactor our core logic using our tests.

## What I hope to have done by next log update

* Refine our unit tests and perhaps delete some of them so that we only have sociable tests.
* Implement the Make Change story
* Implement the Return Coins story

---
| [<< Previous](https://woodyb.github.io/vending-machine-project/design/developers-log/2024.04.08)
| [Next >>](https://woodyb.github.io/vending-machine-project/design/developers-log/2024.04.22)
| [Log Directory](https://woodyb.github.io/vending-machine-project/design/developers-log/Directory-Of-Developers-Logs)
| [Project Code View](https://github.com/WoodyB/vending-machine-project) |
