# Developer's Log, 2024.03.21

## Progress

* __Done:__ Implemented simulator / vending machine with clear boundaries.
* __Not Done:__ Add a design diagram document that explains how the simulator / vending machine interface
* __Not Done:__ Goal is to have a running state machine that can accept coins and display how much money has been inserted in the machine for the pending transaction.

Well I haven't met all the goals yet. This has been more complicated I than I anticipated but I'm happy with my progress. I am implementing a [Hexagonal Architecture](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hexagonal_architecture_(software)) as I discussed in the previous log. I may be over designing but I would rather err a little on the side of over design than under design if it allows us to keep things very modular and testable.

I have a design document but you can't see it because it's written on my whiteboard and yellow legal pad. I will strive to create a PDF to meet the goal
next iteration.

Something I think was particularly interesting in this iteration was the problem of how can I create a port/adaptor for keyboard input. I needed a way for the Simulator to either accept keys from stdin
(pressing keys in the terminal) or through an automated way when testing. I bumped up against the
limit of my NodeJS knowledge when it comes to dealing with input streams. I'm sure what I have implemented and plan to implement next could be done better. My thought is, get it working first then I can refine later by refactoring with the aid of all my tests.

To solve this problem I had a productive conversation with ChatGPT. The code it generated wouldn't work but the idea that came from it was really valuable because I hadn't thought of it. The issue is how the heck can I
inject an event listener into my Simulator. You see we want the Simulator processing the key presses and making decision not the adapter. GhatGPT had the idea of reversing the relationship. So instead of injecting the keyboard handler (which will be called InputHandler and hasn't be written yet) into the Simulator we inject the Simulator into the InputHandler. I coded up a throw-away experiment to see if this would even work and I believe it does. Full discloser, I didn't use TDD in my experiment, but you will never see that code.
Not sure how the TDD masters would feel about that but that's what I did.

Although I haven't written the InputHandler you can see the mock version of it I wrote for the unit tests while developing the Simulator using TDD.

Here's how it looked at the time of this log entry [see rc-475 Simulator.spec.ts](https://github.com/WoodyB/vending-machine-project/blob/rc-475/test/commit/Simulator.spec.ts#L83) and [rc-475 Simulator.ts](https://github.com/WoodyB/vending-machine-project/blob/rc-475/src/Simulator/Simulator.ts#L20)

From my experiment I know what form the NodeJS event listener will be sending key presses so the handleKeyPress() method in Simulator is ready to accept it. Also, note how I'm kind of debouncing the key press. It's not a real debounce but I had to protect against the user pressing down a key like 'q' and holding it. More than likely the operating system they are using will auto repeat a key if they hold it down. By forcing the user to press a key then press enter solves this issue. They can press and hold a key but nothing is going to happen until they press enter then the simulator will look at the previous key before the enter key to process the command. This is how the coin keys will work. I'm not sure about keys that POWER_DOWN the Vending Machine and exit the Simulator. Maybe those should take effect immediately. I feel like if I press Ctl C, Esc, or x to exit I should not have to hit enter. That just feels silly.

## What I hope to have done by next log update

* Add a design diagram document that explains how the simulator / vending machine is using Hexagonal Architecture (Ports & Adaptors)
* Goal is to have a running state machine that can accept coins and display how much money has been inserted in the machine for the pending transaction interactively using the Simulator.

---
| [<< Previous](https://woodyb.github.io/vending-machine-project/design/developers-log/2024.03.15)
| [Next >>](https://woodyb.github.io/vending-machine-project/design/developers-log/2024.03.27)
| [Log Directory](https://woodyb.github.io/vending-machine-project/design/developers-log/Directory-Of-Developers-Logs)
| [Project Code View](https://github.com/WoodyB/vending-machine-project) |
