# Developer's Log, 2024.05.22

## Progress

* __Done:__ Eliminate VendingHandler.spec but preserve tests that should be kept by moving them into VendingMachine.spec at a higher level of abstraction
* __Done:__ Implement Exact Change Only user story

All of the user stories have been implemented and version 1.0 has been released. I have some consulting work heating up so I will not be able to work on this project very much in the near future. I see so many things that could be improved and some cases desperately need to be improved so I have mixed emotions about reaching this milestone. Such is the nature of developing software I suppose.

In future I really want to create version 2.0 that replaces my poor man's finite state machine with a OOP state pattern. Not only will that make me feel better about the code, it will also be an excellent opportunity to see how the tests holdup.

There's also at least one more GitHub workflow I need to create. I need to create a workflow that will keep the OAuth refresh token from expiring. When the project is active this isn't a problem because releases are being deployed on Box.com before the token expires. However, if 60 days pass without any interaction with Box.com it will expire.

I'm also thinking about new project using the vending-machine-project as a start. I think it will be implementing the vending machine again but with a React front-end and a REST API backend. I'm also considering making this one CI not gated CI. That means no branches and no PRs.

Before I start the new project I need to write a retrospective document.

## What I hope to have done by next log update

* Add acceptance tests for Exact Change Only
* Investigate DRYing up repeated code in VendingMachine idleAction() / exactChangeOnlyAction()
* Investigate adding coin inventory control to simulator

---
| [<< Previous](https://woodyb.github.io/vending-machine-project/design/developers-log/2024.05.10)
| Next >>
| [Log Directory](https://woodyb.github.io/vending-machine-project/design/developers-log/Directory-Of-Developers-Logs)
| [Project Code View](https://github.com/WoodyB/vending-machine-project) |
