# Developer's Log, 2024.03.15

## Progress

* __Not Done:__ Add a design diagram document that explains how the simulator / vending machine interface
* __Not Done:__ Goal is to have a running state machine that can accept coins and display how much money has been inserted in the machine for the pending transaction.
* __Not Done:__ Implemented simulator / vending machine with clear boundaries.

Well I didn't meet the goals I set but I did make progress. I think I have a pretty good idea how to pull all this together now. I have an architecture pattern in mind, [Hexagonal Architecture](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hexagonal_architecture_(software)) or you may know it as Ports & Adaptors. This should allow us to keep things very modular and testable.

When I came to this decision I realized I would have to reorganize my code and break some things up even if I was just going to maintain what little bit of functionality I had working. This took a little while to do. I was feeling really guilty writing writing and only adding one new test for a delay(). I knew I needed to add a delay in my FSM while loop so that it won't hog all the cpu time. So I carefully reorganized the code to use adapters and created a port interface. I felt like somehow Kent Beck and Dave Farley were using the Force to watch me and disapproving. Once I finished the big reorganization I ran the tests I had. I think I had to fix up some import statements or something but after that the tests passed.

It struck me. I didn't really add any new behaviors. I did add the new utility delay() but I wrote a test for it first. So really my big reorganization was just a refactor. Perhaps all went as it was supposed to. Now I'm feeling like maybe I did stay true to TDD after all.

Here's how things look at the time of this log entry [see rc-470](https://github.com/WoodyB/vending-machine-project/tree/rc-470).

## What I hope to have done by next log update

* Add a design diagram document that explains how the simulator / vending machine is using Hexagonal Architecture (Ports & Adaptors)
* Goal is to have a running state machine that can accept coins and display how much money has been inserted in the machine for the pending transaction.
* Implement simulator / vending machine with clear boundaries.

---
| [<< Previous](https://woodyb.github.io/vending-machine-project/design/developers-log/2024.03.07)
| [Next >>](https://woodyb.github.io/vending-machine-project/design/developers-log/2024.03.21)
| [Log Directory](https://woodyb.github.io/vending-machine-project/design/developers-log/Directory-Of-Developers-Logs)
| [Project Code View](https://github.com/WoodyB/vending-machine-project) |
