# Developer's Log, 2024.03.04

## Progress

* Completed ability to detect a valid coin has been inserted, the amount of the coin will be added to the current amount and the display will be updated. Well sort of, at least in the Vending Machine Component.

Let's talk about what's going on in this iteration. TDD wise it's pretty interesting. State machine wise, not as much. I've started implementing a simple state machine that is in the form of a while loop [See VendingMachine](https://github.com/WoodyB/vending-machine-project/blob/rc-430/src/VendingMachine.ts) at time of this writing. This will not be the final form of the state machine. We can do much better but it moved us forward so we could start writing tests. It's part of the process.

TDD wise I'm pretty pleased with our start. For our simulation my plan is to use the keyboard to simulate events like perhaps pressing the 'q' key will simulate inserting a quarter. I am nowhere near hooking up the keyboard but using good separation of concerns and dependency injection we can begin to write tests for our business logic before we worry about such details. I think this is an excellent demonstration how TDD helps your software design. Let me show you what I mean.

First let's have a look at our updated constructor in the VendingMachine Class.

``` typescript
constructor(
        private display: (str: string) => void, private coinMechanism: CoinMechanism) 
```

The same way we injected a function named display we are now also injecting an instance of a Class of type CoinMechanism. One of the reasons we are doing this is so we can test our implementation of VendingMachine. The other reason we are doing this is it's a better design which will allow us to more easily change our software in the future. This is cleaner code.

Let's have a look at our new class [CoinMechanism](https://github.com/WoodyB/vending-machine-project/blob/rc-430/src/CoinMechanism.ts) As you can see right now it's just sort of a placeholder and doesn't do much. So why even put it in right now? I will show you why.

* In [index.ts](https://github.com/WoodyB/vending-machine-project/blob/rc-430/src/index.ts) we can see that we created an instance of CoinMechanism and passed that in the constructor when we create an instance of VendingMachine. We also passed in a function for display. I talked about that earlier in [developer's log 2024.01.09](https://github.com/WoodyB/vending-machine-project/blob/rc-430/design/developers-log/2024.01.09.md)

``` typescript
const coinMechanism = new CoinMechanism();
const vendingMachine = new VendingMachine(console.log, coinMechanism);
```

So why is this important? Because it allows us to substitute our own mock versions when we are testing our VendingMachine implementation. In [index.ts](https://github.com/WoodyB/vending-machine-project/blob/rc-430/src/index.ts) we are passing in what we intend to use in production. However, if you look at [VendingMachine.spec.ts](https://github.com/WoodyB/vending-machine-project/blob/rc-430/test/commit/VendingMachine.spec.ts) you will see we have created our own versions of display and coinMechanism. This give us complete control while we are testing.

``` typescript
    beforeEach(() => {
        mockCoinMechanism = new MockCoinMechanism();
        vendingMachine = new VendingMachine(myDisplay, mockCoinMechanism);
    });
```

If you look at myDisplay(), yeah, it needs a better name maybe spyDisplay() or mockDisplay(), we are just recording the calls to that function in an array. This allows us to know what VendingMachine was displaying. Now let's have a look at our MockCoinMechanism Class

``` typescript
class MockCoinMechanism extends CoinMechanism {
  private pendingTransactionTotal: number;

  constructor() {
    super();
    this.pendingTransactionTotal = 0;
  }

  public updatePendingTransactionTotal(amount: number) {
    this.pendingTransactionTotal = amount;
  }

  public getPendingTransactionTotal(): number {
    return this.pendingTransactionTotal;
  }
}
```

**By extending the real Class, CoinMechanism we can overload and augment the methods of that class giving us full control. All this power and we didn't need to use some complicated mocking library!**

For example look at this test case

``` typescript
    it('Should display 0.25 after a quarter is inserted', async () => {
      mockCoinMechanism.updatePendingTransactionTotal(.25);
      vendingMachine.start();
      expect(StringsDisplayed[StringsDisplayed.length - 1]).toBe('0.25');
    });
```

You can see we've added a method to our mock version so we can set what will be returned from method *getPendingTransactionTotal()* which is being called in our VendingMachine Class. Then, we can check to make sure that VendingMachine displayed *0.25* because we it will be the last entry in the StringsDisplayed[].

Now you may say, "That's all good and well but at some point you gotta really test it not mock things." I will agree, to a point. We may not need many end to end tests if we do an excellent job with our unit tests but we will want some. And, as it stands now we do have one already. If you take a look at our [acceptance smoke-test.spec.ts](https://github.com/WoodyB/vending-machine-project/blob/rc-430/test/acceptance/smoke-test.spec.ts) you will see that we are indeed not using any mocks at all. However, it's unlikely we will write all the test cases that we create for our unit tests to be executed at this level. Stay tuned to see where all this goes. Right now, I only have a rough idea of where I think it is going so I'll be surprised as you are when we get there. Ain't software fun?!

## What I hope to have done next iteration

* More of the same. TDDing away.
* I'm thinking maybe I should get some more functionality in place using TDD of course, then it may be time to refactor our state machine to get rid of the ugly while loop implementation.
* Then again, we could switch off to implementing the CoinMechanism component using TDD.
