# Developer's Log, 2024.03.27

## Progress

* __Done:__ Implemented simulator / vending machine with clear boundaries.
* __Done:__ Add a design diagram document that explains how the simulator / vending machine interface See [Harnessing The Power of Hexagonal Architecture](https://woodyb.github.io/vending-machine-project/design/Harnessing-The-Power-of-Hexagonal-Architecture.pdf)
* __Done:__ Goal is to have a running state machine that can accept coins and display how much money has been inserted in the machine for the pending transaction interactively using the Simulator.

The simulator only supports a few commands at the time of this log. Follow the instructions in the project Readme to install and run it. Once run simulator automatically sends the POWER_ON command to the vending machine. The vending machine will settle into its IDLE state displaying the instruction for you to Insert Coin. Both the simulator and vending machine are independently running and only interact through pots and adapters. The simulator never calls a method in the vending machine directly.

* press __q__ then __enter__ to simulate inserting a quarter
* press __d__ then __enter__ to simulate inserting a dime
* press __n__ then __enter__ to simulate inserting a nickel
* press __p__ then __enter__ to simulate inserting a penny
* press __s__ then __enter__ to simulate inserting a slug (fake coin)
* press __f__ then __enter__ to simulate inserting a foreign coin

To stop the vending machine and exit the simulator

* press __x__ or
* press __Esc__ or
* press __Ctl C__

## What I hope to have done by next log update

There are a few different ways we could go now.

* We could fully develop the Logic Controller FSM since we have it well isolated.
* We could stop coding our poor man's while loop state machine and switch to some more sophisticated implementation like [xstate](https://www.npmjs.com/package/xstate) before adding any more logic to it.

* However, I think the best thing to do next is prepare the way for our acceptance tests. This will be the new goal.
