# Developer's Log, 2024.04.22

## Progress

* __Done:__ Refine our unit tests and perhaps delete some of them so that we only have sociable tests.
* __Done:__ Implement the Make Change story
* __Done:__ Implement the Return Coins story

### Summary

I did some refinement work on the unit tests to make them more sociable. I still have more work to do. I need to eliminate the VendingHandler.spec because it is too tightly coupled to the current implementation. However, I think some of testing in that spec should be kept but just moved up to a higher abstraction in the VendingMachine.spec. This is what I did when I eliminated the CurrencyHandler.spec. That said, I did find both CurrencyHandler.spec and VendingMachine.spec useful while developing those classes using TDD.

I think specs just like the rest of the code in the project need to be constantly refactored and when possible eliminated. I think it's easy to get into a mindset that if tests were useful then we should keep them but the cost of maintaining tests too tightly coupled to the implementation is too high.

### Version 2

I'm still of the mind that I should finish the remaining user stories (only two left) before redesigning what's inside the hexagon (core logic.) I think this will be version 2. I've been thinking about if this were a real commercial project or widely used open source project how would I want to go about redesigning the core logic without impact to users. I think the answer is keep version 1.x.x and fix any bugs that may be discovered. So version 2 will coexist and be executable but not executed when user's type node bin/index. Version 2 may not be available in production at all but it will be tested in the CD Pipeline on every change regardless if the code change is to Version 1 or Version 2. My plan is to run the same tests against both versions ensuring we have preserved the behavior.

I've been referring to the changes to inside the hexagon as architecture changes but it's small enough that may not be the right description. I'll just call it software design from now on. The current design in version one as you know is a poor man's finite state machine. I think I've settled on the design for version 2. I'm planning to use the OOP [State Design Pattern](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/State_pattern) from the [Gang Of Four.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Design_Patterns)

## What I hope to have done by next log update

* Eliminate VendingHandler.spec but preserve tests that should be kept by moving them into VendingMachine.spec at a higher level of abstraction
* Update document. The Vending Machine Diagram is behind the implementation now.
* Implement Exact Change Only user story
* Implement Sold Out user story

---
| [<< Previous](https://woodyb.github.io/vending-machine-project/design/developers-log/2024.04.14)
| [Next >>](https://woodyb.github.io/vending-machine-project/design/developers-log/2024.05.06)
| [Log Directory](https://woodyb.github.io/vending-machine-project/design/developers-log/Directory-Of-Developers-Logs)
| [Project Code View](https://github.com/WoodyB/vending-machine-project) |
